.TH "HDAPSD" 8 "__DATE__" "hdapsd __VERSION__" "hdapsd"
.SH NAME
hdapsd \- park the drive in case of an emergency
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hdapsd \-d \fI<device>\fR [\fI\-s <sensitivity>\fR|\fI\-a\fR|\fI\-v\fR|\fI\-b\fR|\fI\-p\fR|\fI\-t\fR|\fI\-y\fR|\fI\-l\fR|\fI\-V\fR|\fI\-h\fR]
.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Required options:"
.TP
\fB\-d\fR \fB\-\-device=\fR\fI<device>\fR
<device> is likely to be hda or sda. Can be given multiple times to protect multiple devices.
.SS "Additional options:"
.TP
\fB\-s\fR \fB\-\-sensitivity=\fR\fI<sensitivity>\fR
How sensitive hdapsd should be to movements.
Defaults to 15, higher values mean less sensitive.
.TP
\fB\-a\fR \fB\-\-adaptive\fR
Adaptive threshold (automatic increase when the built\-in keyboard/mouse are used).
.TP
\fB\-v\fR \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Get verbose statistics.
.TP
\fB\-b\fR \fB\-\-background\fR
Run the process in the background.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR \fB\-\-pidfile\fR[\fI=<pidfile>\fR]
Create a pid file when running in background.
If <pidfile> is not specified, it's set to /var/run/hdapsd.pid.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR \fB\-\-dry\-run\fR
Don't actually park the drive.
.TP
\fB\-y\fR \fB\-\-poll\-sysfs\fR
Force use of sysfs interface to accelerometer.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR \fB\-\-syslog\fR
Log to syslog instead of stdout/stderr.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR \fB\-\-force\fR
Force unloading heads, even if kernel thinks different (on pre ATA7 drives). This only works when adding devices by hand (-d) and must be set BEFORE -d.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version information and exit.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR \fB\-\-help\fR
Display help and exit.

.PP
You can send SIGUSR1 to deactivate hdapsd for 8 seconds.
